---
title: Magic Creatures
---
# Magic Creatures
Magic creatures of Arkaedia are living in every sense of the word, except one: they lack physical, flesh-and-blood hearts. They can still be wounded, they still bleed, but their blood flows from a magical gemstone hidden within their bodies (approximately where a heart should be). More advanced or intelligent magical creatures sometimes possess other "crystal organs" and are prized for the power they hold.
- Elves - typically elves hearts are bright red rubies, about fist-sized. They can be broken into shards, worked, and used to imbue magic into mundane objects. The magic contained within an elf heart is immense for the size (the only prize better than an elf heart is a dragon heart).
- Dragons - once hunted during a past age for the immense magical power locked within their hearts (and other organs), dragons living now are typically cautious and mistrustful. Most magical weapons of a past age were created with shards from one dragon or another, and their properties and egos are properly aligned with the type of dragon they came from.
- Feytouched - typically, the hearts of fey creatures can be used to imbue objects with nature or healing magic. People feel much less squeamish about using a heart from a blink dog or hag, but the utility--and power--is lesser.
- Other Magic Beasts - on a somewhat "as-needed" basis, other magical creatures, ranging from Basilisks to Rust Monsters and beyond, can be harvested to create specific magical properties in an item. The limited uses and typically lessened power means magical beasts are less sought after for their heartgems, but there is still a thriving market for such things.