---
title: Races
---
# Races
Although there are other races in Arkaedia, humans are the dominant race (at least in civilized lands) and their personalities, cultures, and preferences vary widely. This campaign will not take place in "civilized" lands, however, so a number of other races are known to roam about. A few notes on each race's culture, etc. follows. Although Novum advanced quickly and overall prosperity 
## Dwarves
Dwarves live almost exclusively underground and feel uncomfortable when exposed to open sky. Although some dwarves are trained to make forays into the "Overland," these dwarves are seen as a necessary evil. Most dwarves would prefer to expand and build the caverns and mountains of the world and raise them to the sky forever.
Some dwarves (the duergar) even regard the sun as evil and avoid it at all costs, choosing instead to delve deeper into the Underdark instead. These dwarves have found untold ancient horrors hidden in the depths of the world and many of them have gone insane as a result.
## Elves
Elves are inherently magical creatures and thus possess highly sought after magic within their chests: rather than the usual flesh-and-blood hearts, elves have a heartgem, typically ruby red. Since these hearts are one of the best sources for imbuing magic into items, they have been hunted for ages. Only recently has Olenda outlawed this practice, but the mistrust and hatred between elves and other races runs deep.
Elves are almost exclusively found in wilderness areas, or at least far from human civilization. Some, the drow, even ventured into the Underdark to seek refuge there. Due to some evil they encountered, their hearts ceased to glow red and instead glow purple now. A rare few elves have been able to escape the Mortal plane into the Feywild, which they have found amenable. Those rare elves are "eladrin" and possess multi-faceted, changing heartgems. As you might imagine, they are among the most sought after specimens.
## Gnomes
Gnomes are cousins to dwarves and, accordingly, share many of the same properties: they, too, typically prefer a roof over their heads and regard overland travel as a necessary evil, at best. However, where dwarves are focused on building with stone, gnomes practice their trade on gemstones. They possess a unique ability to extract magical essence from otherwise unliving gemstones. Unfortunately, this conversion process is abysmally ineffecient.
Despite the inefficiency of this process, a contingent of gnomes has convinced overlanders of Olenda to ally with them, promising greater returns in the future.
## Orcs
Orcs have crept forth from the area surrounding the Testudines Majorus for centuries. They have traditionally been the plague of civilization. No one seems to know why they exist or how they appear around the dome, but they have for many years. Only recently, within the last several human generations, has their onslaught been beaten back and the Hordelands been reclaimed (somewhat).
As such, orcs are rare in present day and generally feared above other races. Any orcs present in the lands of Arkaedia are likely holdouts from an age long past or loners wandering in to find a bit of peace away from civilized lands that fear and hate them.
## Goblinoids
Goblinoids were armed throughout the Orc wars to help the three nations fight back the orcish hordes. Without that aid, primarily the military aid that came from Bezie, it is hard to say whether the goblinoids would be as widespread as they are today. However, although they are growing in numbers, mainly in the Hordelands, their natures prevent them from achieving real or lasting success. Small empires that existed following the Orc wars in decades prior have already descended into tribal in-fighting.
## Other Monstrous Races
Other monstrous humanoids surely exists in Arkaedia. Perhaps new adventurers to the region will be the first in generations to encounter these strange and dangerous creatures and chronicle them for a new audience?